The last data structure we're going to
talk about in this chapter is the Tuple.
That's spelled T-U-P-L E.
Let's open up the interactive shell so we
can look at how tuples work.
First thing you should know, is that a
tuple is very, very similar to a list.
We use a different delimiter, parentheses
rather than brackets, to signify a tuple.
And all the operations of tuples, are
similar
to the ones of list, except for one
detail.
And that's the fact that a tuple, is an
immutable object.
Which means, that every time you change
a tuple, you're actually creating another
copy.
Unlike a list, where you can change it, as
they say in place.
But with a tuple, if I make a change
to the tuple, then that just creates
another copy.
So tuples are a little less efficient than
lists, because of that immutability,
other than that they're exactly the same
as you'll see through this example.
So the first thing we'll do is create an
empty tuple, and we do
that by writing a open and closed
parenthesis alone, that represents an
empty tuple.
If we wanna store some data in a tuple, we
put the data
inside the parenthesis, delimited by
commas, just like we do for a list.
To access a tuple element, we use
indexing, just like we do for lists.
We can return the length of a tuple with
the length function.
We can get a slice.
Using slice notation, we can concatinate
two tuples together to form a new
tuple, using the concatination operator,
which actually is just the plus sign.
And then finally, let's create a string
tuple.
We can use the multiplication operator to
replicate a tuple.
So, as you can see, all the operations
that we performed
on lists earlier in this chapter, we can
also perform on tuples.
There is one thing we can do with a tuple
that we can't do with a list.
And that's using it as a key in a
dictionary, and we'll look at that later
in the course.
But for now, we're going to end this
lesson on tuples, because we've covered
all of the
basics of how tuples are formed, and we'll
come back to the subject later in the
course.
But now we're ready to move on to the
exercises for this chapter.